loved ones,

these thoughts are fragmented, but i think share a thread. hopefully that thread appears itself to you? there is a technique [one of my favorite tinyletter writers](https://chipmnk.substack.com/?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=substack_profile) sometimes uses, a [list](www.moonlists.com/about/?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) that structures his thoughts for the month. in any case, i feel this jumble of words is the best i can do.

*1. nature*<br>
there are a lot of spiders where i live, thin stagnant daddy long legs that i try my best not to be scared of. one night when setting my bed i saw a little one, crawling across the white of my sheets. a strange, black dot. (did you know that spiders move by sending blood out to their legs, the quick shifts in fluid pressure allowing the appendage to bend?) i whispered, *i'm sorry*, and squished it in a square of toilet paper before it could disappear.

*2. object (new)*<br>
i have moved to another apartment, where my room has large windows looking out to the street that remind me of where i used to live last year. everything in my space is clean and white and light brown wood, and i feel safe, or at least safer than i did when i arrived in this country. spaces i have been craving for myself: the cocoon of my duvet, a hot shower, libraries with central heating and internet. somewhere i can pretend that the opacity of my life’s direction is an illusion, that everything is settled. but there’s no use in trying to fool myself, is there. so, what do you do -- when you feel on edge, and alone, and broke as hell, but still so desperate to live and love and experience some sense of sureness?

*3. object (old)*<br>
this summer was filled with a lot of mary oliver and specifically [this piece](http://onbeing.org/blog/mary-oliver-reads-wild-geese/?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) of hers -- which i am rediscovering, and trying desperately to take to heart. *you do not have to be good. / you do not have to walk on your knees / for a hundred miles through the desert, / repenting.  / you only have to let the soft animal of your / body love what it loves / ... / whoever you are, no matter how lonely, / the world offers itself to your imagination / calls to you like the wild geese, harsh and / exciting - / over and over announcing your place / in the family of things.*

*4. encounter*<br>
almost four weeks ago i stumbled out of london gatwick, in the bright of the noonday sun. weaved my way through the Underground to a crumbling flat that was so, so far from home.  noa hadn’t arrived yet, so i was alone. and no one can prepare you for that, loneliness.  the following morning i forced myself to eat breakfast, cereal that i bought at the corner store down the road. i had gone there the night before, bleary-eyed and on the brink of tears, desperate to swallow down whatever pain was making my stomach gnaw and my heart harden.  in the u.s., when people greet they tend to ask *how are you*: a question i’m used to knowing as hollow and trite. it is easy now to smile, to say *i’m fine* in the face of those three words. but when i got to the cash register at sainsbury’s, pecan maple crunch and almond milk in hand, a soft-looking and blonde-headed teen asked me: *are you alright* (did you know this question is in fact the english equivalent of *how are you*, complete with lack of genuine interest in your emotional life?) i tugged my hood down and choked out: *yes, i’m alright.*

*5. night out (though more like in)*<br>
wednesday night was the first day we had dinner as a new family. i roasted vegetables to shocking perfection, with olive oil and rosemary. noa made salad with spinach, kale, orange, roasted walnuts. and alfredo bought *three bottles of wine.* (we got through two of them.)

*6. time alone*<br>
some days are better than others. some days i am out in this new world feeling like a child again, with so much wonder and magnificence and history to explore in each brick and cobblestone, each ancient tree spreading its roots in a centuries-old park.  some days i can dare to imagine myself living here, filled by the pride that is knowing a place has been made yours, a piece of your heart deposited here.

and others are bad. rain is always around the corner, and is always cold. yesterday there was a wind that blew so hard everyone walked with a tilt. days i feel frail. days i feel dull and the sky is no comfort, a grey sheet above me. days i miss z. so much it’s as if nothing but her body could keep me warm.  and the width of the atlantic is tripled in an instant, and everyone i love is impossibly far. i read in a book that home is not where you are from, but where you belong; on other days i don’t belong anywhere, i can’t even place a shaky finger on where home might be.

*7. movie / tv / book*<br>
there was a showing of [the miseducation of cameron post](www.imdb.com/title/tt6257174/?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19), which i had only considered seeing because i am gay and so is cameron post, but sadly due to the mess that is my life i wasn't able to see the film. one thing i am very much looking forward to is resuming my watch of [pose](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/pose_-tv_series?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) once our apartment stops being a wifi-forsaken wasteland. and somehow, i'm still out here reading a book on quantum mechanics for fun.

*8. new idea*<br>
maybe i am a person who relies on stability, and maybe that is ok, and maybe i need to be gentle with myself in this time.

i want to know how you all are experiencing fall, which feels more like the start of a new year than january -- what leaves are changing for you, or maybe falling apart, or how you’ve kept yourself warm. i miss you all every day.

love,<br>
e

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
soggy streets, london, UK <br>
</p>