dear friends,

in honor of the full moon - and in honor of a better self - going to try my hand at what had eluded me for most of this year. i broke a lot of promises and failed to follow through with many things this year. (part of the stability that 2020 robbed, even though coming into it, i felt on the verge of such promise...) oh well - the buildings we make from out of the rubble.

_1\. night out (february)_<br>one of the evenings i will hold most dear from my time in london is a magnificent saga with lana, apoorva, and two of apoorva's friends. (one, i don't remember his name; the other, her name was shea.) at the last minute i had bought tickets to a [kindness concert at EartH](http://youtu.be/evudz3nwikk?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19), and somehow convinced others to join me. i think about the electricity in the air, the packed bodies and coloured lights that cast everyone in such magical hues. those moments when the kick and snare rattled my solar plexus just right - and looking up at the stage, seeing kindness so exuberant, seeing what felt like the future of my dear luke (i sent them a text just to say _look, there you are, look where you'll be shining -!_ ) after the show ended, we shuttled off to a bar; after the bar, off to dalston superstore, where god only knows how many hours we spent there dancing, but what matters was the dancing, was the dj, were the drag queens, the drizzle under which we passed that blunt around - the life, the life.

_2\. time alone (march)_<br>when i arrived in wisconsin, my parents took the two-weeks of quarantine very seriously.  for the first week, my domain was constrained to my childhood bedroom, my brother's former bedroom, and the bathroom connecting the two. & during the second, i could venture down to common spaces (wearing a mask at all times, of course.)

these conditions spurred the beginning of my walks - slipping out of the house to try to touch a freedom that felt so suddenly stripped away. i have much to be grateful for, but these moments with myself were a special treasure - in a time where solid ground felt especially scarce, the walks restored an inner centre that allowed me to carry the changes forward.

_3\. discard (april)_<br>freud, ever the genius (/sarcasm), says mourning only becomes pathological when you cannot repurpose or shift your desire from the lost beloved onto something else. i don't want to have to settle for distractions; but i see his point here. in the past, i was so in love and then got over it because i fell in love with someone else. same situation, albeit messier, from d. to z. and back to d. again.

there is a nature conservancy about a mile away from my house. i walked there once and was stunned by the orange hue of the wild grass, stark beneath the grey sky and bare trees in the distance. a vivid austerity struck my core; a wind asked me, _what are you willing to give up to grow into your fullest being?_

so i replied to a letter d. sent me, relinquishing all pretense - placed aside the uncertainty and longing that stirred my stomach, and wrote them, this, whatever we were and are, goodbye -

and a piece of my heart did die, in a way. but tissue is regenerable; and humans evolve, i suppose, to find new ways of being with each other again. the movement is nameless. but i look out and find myself somehow standing on another frontier; a place where they can never go.

_4\. change (may)_<br>i don't think i would have survived nearly as long as i have in my family home, if our patterns of communication and consideration had not changed for the better. last november, it had come to a head: i told my mom that if we failed to address our ways of relating and family, i would cut myself off completely - and this was a shock, but an important one, because the shock cleared away something that had been lodged for all my life. things are not perfect now, but different in a manner i would've scarcely imagined a year ago, or even considered possible years before. god is in the changes, certainly.

_5\. proud (june)_<br>maybe this counts as a smaller victory, but i am proud of my going to new mexico. i am proud of listening to what i needed, and doing what was necessary for that need to be met - even when my parents, in their desire to keep me close, quietly held this against me.

_6\. indulgent (july)_<br>it was a monday to rival all mondays, when justin prepared a special hot pot meal that devolved into a night of absolute debauchery, feat. youtube dj-ing and night swimming and a brutal apple whisky concoction that pushed us all over the edge... obviously, we were all out of order in the few days afterwards. but it was absolutely worth it - if anything, for the pure, unadulterated joy.

_7\. mystery (august)_<br>there was a string of weeks where tasha's house and her neighbor's house was bombarded by this skunk smell, but no one knew were the skunk was, or whether there were multiple, or why the smell only took over after a certain hour of the evening...mysteries that, to my knowledge, have not yet been solved.

_8\. object, old/new (september)_<br>this is a strange one, an object that is both old and new.

objects that are entangled - two weeks ago i received a belated birthday present from d. it was their old ipod classic: the one i had always nagged them about for never using, even though it worked perfectly. right before i left london, i lost my own ipod - a device that contained nearly all of my music and therefore, an enormous portion of my heart. so, d.'s gift was infuriatingly perfect. heartbreaking, in how perfect it was.

because the truth is surely this: that i can never use the ipod, for to use it would only be to remind myself constantly of all that is messy still. i remember a time when i stopped listening to music all together, just so that i could extricate my love for this art form from my love for them. i know, to preserve that work and respect what is right for me requires the same decathexis here.

<p align="right" style="font-style: italic;">
oh, the cost of the clay<br><br>
the closing of doors,<br>the fall, the mistakes -<br><br>
in turn are nothing more <br> than a motion<br><br>
a pulmonary exercise
</p>

anyway. please know: when i say i love you, i mean it with the fullest heart and gratitude, because maybe it's cheesy but it's true - my friendships, chosen family, are the salve right now that is keeping my sense of hope alive. casey once said to me, "love flows all around us." it does, doesn't it? somehow, like the earth itself, it's a current that outlasts us: transcending all tragedy and struggle. if i do anything in this life, i want it to be in service of this. i love you, i miss you - let me know how i can be present for you, in whatever way. & i will keep trying to write more.

-- e

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
for now, somewhere, USA <br>
</p>