it is 4:37 when you decide there is nothing else left to break. you know that the phone is yet another frayed vocal cord, incapable of rendering legible what you need. but speak, you try anyway. the woman who birthed you is on the other side and she is sad, sad because of what she cannot understand of your truth. and so, she cuts the line. and so, you feel those metallic springs, which quiver in your heart’s chamber with a new sharpness.  it is raining, classic, with bird shit splattered on the bus’ front window, a damp fog obscuring where the vehicle is even headed. you think of your friend, how they wrote that <em>everything in this world is asking me to harden</em>. think of your hardening, and softness, resenting them both. you are too proud to cry on public transit; at most, one tear is allowed a trail beyond the levee.  though there is, in your senses, a resounding futility of the stoicism – this rag, worn out over many years. eventually, it is the fatigue that strips you bare once your stop approaches. yes, you, survivor of strain, stepping out breathless in the cold.
 
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>
 
that night you have a dream of your ex-girlfriend, one of the most vivid in a while. you know why your brain has made this substitution: the lines she would always cut, the truths she could never make space for.  in the dream you are filled with fury because she is trying to come back into your life with a strange spirit of childishness, a shocking confidence that always works on vapid, horny men but never on you. you are stunned that she would even try this. yet here she is, settled in your dreamscape, trying not to flinch when you begin shouting, screaming, when halfway through you realise you do in fact want to hurt her, for maybe if she felt a fraction of your pain she’d jolt into understanding and leave you alone. ultimately, it is you who leaves, not her. you are the one to gather your things, cursing in ways you wouldn’t dare bring into your conscious life, and she is still, a petrified doll smiling through pain, when you exit the scene and wake up with a dryness in your throat, this memory of what was said, wondering whether the outrage was justified, but also how much she even heard.
 
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>

olives are mostly hollow. you eat them one by one and feel an unmistakeable kinship, right when your tongue reaches the empty space within and busts the fruit open from the inside out. you understand the ridges that the now-detached pit has left. absence, too, has its own character.
 
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>

the concert is beautiful beyond measure and of course, you can’t help but think of that person, god help you, that person with whom you used to share everything with, most of all beautiful music.  when you record the last song of the set, it is half for you and half for what you are deliberating to send. neediness, you tell yourself, is to be avoided at all costs. you think that perhaps a clinical approach to the heart will override any sensitivity, any yearning that has remained lodged within – but it is undeniable, isn't it, how your feelings unravel despite every attempt at rationality. from this realisation you take a moment, daring to believe that it could be worth it to just lay your cards down. asking, what harm would come by simply saying <em>i miss you</em>, even if you’re not sure if you know them enough anymore to actually miss them. but in practice, you are unable to admit to these words. you settle for writing, <em>you are missed</em>. the message is sent. their response is cordial, punctuated, neatly organised — too much so to be genuine, or at least this is what you try and fail to assess. though what did you even expect, anyway. and it is at this point when you seriously consider, perhaps it is best to give yourself over to that frost, now poised to stretch its fingers over the place in your heart where they are carried, and close yourself off for good.
 
<p style="text-align: center;">***</p>
 
and the mantra, you try to cling to:
<br>brain matter only builds from resistance
<br>brain matter only builds from resistance
<br>brain matter only builds from resistance

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
soggy streets, london, UK <br>
</p>