future self: i make promises to you every day, promises you likely think are pointless.  because no matter how hard i try to manufacture routine, to fashion some sense of control while the city and the world burns, the truth is that time is slippery and at the end of it all, what matters is the trying. 1, i emerge from the subway station under pin-pricks of setting sunlight.  2, i try to imagine you saying how the only things that stayed with you are beautiful ones. a table of tiny things, like gifts from those i love: chestnuts, paper cranes, a single pink rose, borrowed bobby pins, the upstanding shell of an incense cone. the way in which it’s winter, again; the arrival of my bedroom’s reddened hour. 3, i think of how this year felt like one of many stops and starts — the proverbial horse made up of boundaries i maintained (or did not), focus in my work (or lack thereof), discipline i stuck with (or cast off to the wind). my most critical voice tells me that this year i underworked and overindulged in my own slowness. but i can be honest all the same. i know that in every moment — and especially at my most terrible — i did no more than my best.

slow and steady wins the race, i’d like to say; except there is no race, only interminable motion we recognize in one way before it transforms into others —

anyways, what else do i want to tell you…in truth i just want to hear from you somehow, how you’ve made down the barrel of a new year.  in a newsletter email i once read that this week is akin to the “march madness of self-reflection,” and i’ll admit, i’m victim to it.  i don’t want this year to disappear, even though so much of it was horrible —  at least looking back, from where i now stand, there is space for both loss and love. i wrote down, for some reason, when i spoke to my mother on the phone one day. a scrap of conversation i was meaning to tell you about, months ago — how her questions felt too probing and i found myself full of a shameful frustration.  and then she asked me simply if i was happy. i was in new york, she was in ethiopia; a 7 hour time difference, with thousands of miles in between. i could’ve easily lied, but i didn’t. or i did? i don’t remember. the truth is that i’m not the most courageous, and what’s likeliest is that i spun for her some obscured picture of reality.  <em>things are stressful, but it is what it is</em>: insert grad school, or health issues, unfolding dramas in the lives of my loved ones.

but i’m trying not to do that here, ok — i’m trying not to let myself hide myself from you. or furthermore, hide from myself in quiet and sorrow. as much as there is shame there is pride, or integrity to balance out what otherwise feels depraved. things take time, don't they? in the shower i noticed my nails had grown. little sprouts appear in soil that otherwise seems dead.

and yes, it's no secret to us how our memory is notoriously hazy, but i hope you can remember all that brought you much-needed joy: 
<br>like stillness in the morning and raucous laughter at night,
<br>aglio e olio warming the kitchen,
<br>devastation transmuted to understanding,
<br>when someone makes you a pie,
<br>or tends the monstera that greens our building hallway,
<br>profundity of love in a single look,
<br>and sweet, sweet friends who sought you out.

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
eastern pkwy, brooklyn, ny <br>
</p>