after nai palm, after the outrage, after the fiery terrain – after the tub from which we slip, in and out of our desires – after the synchronicity, a language forged and forgotten and remembered again – i feel a god, leading me through these remains.

it only takes an instant for the year, year and a half, that our bodies last touched, to disappear. all of silver spring is shrouded in mist – a mystical arrival for you. these details i savour, to know it was more than just a dream: your vehicle, a white vw; your glasses, golden-rimmed; the rain, inescapable; that shadow, lining the sweet sharp of your jaw.

and i’ll be honest: before, i would simply be embarrassed. miss the treasure in fixations, calling them foolishly close to devotion. though this, i swear, feels something different; like an outpour of honey that's been brewing in my heart, the golden dust of pollen-life still sparkling in my eye.

maybe there is a natural order to things. that for us, laughter is presaged by breathing, and heartache is sticky and long. how for some reason there is always a witness to our animal kingdom, this night in a dirty irish pub, seated beside me with a glint in his eye. did you notice, how he intently he listened? as neither predator nor prey, but observer of the wilderness we were fumbling through.

the heaviest moment actually comes when the drone of drizzle quiets, tapering out into the dusk. maybe it’s two or three in the morning, but the sky still glows and we both still sit, trembling from the shock and promise of all that has passed. i peer out the window and watch each exhale condensate beyond the car’s metal frame. silence, you with your thoughts, i measuring the air between us. then you apologize to me, your heart still on the mend. asking for a pause, _because once we shift into drive it’s all over._

here i am, looking across a distance. long ago you mailed to me [an excerpt from a book](http://www.msusvisualarts.weebly.com/uploads/3/8/2/9/38292135/solnit_reading.pdf) – jagged, sun-bleached pages, just as we were on my 22nd summer – to say how our beauty can never be wholly understood. there is a mystery that wraps us together and i want to tell you, love, i already knew. these memories are nothing but cyanotypes, drenched in a precious azure hue: that night, the imprint of your palm in mine, filling the space between our spirits and horizons we have yet to cross.

for now, my dreamscape remains itself a phantom, collaging sleepless nights. sirens on prospect and darkness as another blue. i think of what you told me, the visions you would have of us in sleep. that other world we roamed together – and clarity, subconscious as an undammable river.

you succeeded where i failed, you know, ever the water bearer. and if i had the spacetime i would try to understand what chains had jailed me from my longing, you from my mind’s eye. i would drive with you through every misty road, to try to grasp this depth - the question, most of all, of whether it was really true, that you kept loving me even as an distant apparition, even as the days crashed through us like mudslides, like waves on our opposing sides of the ocean.

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
soggy streets, london, UK <br>
</p>