[a mary oliver poem](https://www.poetry.com/poem/123017/wild-geese) has been popping into my head over and over these past few days.  telling me, _You do not have to be good. / You do not have to walk on your knees / for a hundred miles through the desert repenting. / You only have to let the soft animal of your body / love what it loves_.  i’m crawling into another monday, animalian in spirit — lately i’ve only been able to convince myself of doing that which my body feels unequivocally compelled to do, running on instinct, responding to the most fundamental synapses firing. there’s pleasure and there’s pain: lying naked in the Freikörperkultur, stretching the ache of my heart in the space that longing has left.  there’s the tiny rationalist stomping on my shoulder, scolding me about not doing x/y/z or meeting responsibilities of labor in the normative ways expected. yes, i can’t answer emails with the same unrelenting discipline as before 😅  but maybe that’s just the way of this season? i’m learning to care less, that nothing really matters, not as much as being honest in one’s living or radical in one’s loving.

the past week has been a strange combination of hitting the ground running and maintaining the sense of seismically-shifting slowness that so beautifully permeated through the week before.  i know i am a person in which the act of traveling always shocks the system; i find myself in sudden suspension over the boundaries that had, up until then, unquestionably governed my body and formed a container for my life.  like tapping into some parallel cosmic current that asks me, boldly: who are you? who could you be, who do you want to be?  sometimes i fear that my slowness right now is symptomatic of a dread and distress that i feel towards my work / life generally, and more importantly, that it indicates something i’m doing is wrong. it feels somewhat foolish, to be constantly returning to these same questions of how do i want to live, or structure my life in a way that feels more centered…especially after another month of hazy focus, living day to day, mustering enough energy for what strikes me as the most basic of tasks.

but surprisingly, thankfully, the landing back in new york has been fairly soft. i returned to my apartment, and my sweet room as i left it; leftovers from solange in the fridge, leaves on the gingko tree outside my window fully grown in. these days i’ve woken up more often with a feeling of calm than a feeling of fear; i sense, and hope, that opening up within me is a kind of stillness that i don’t think was necessarily present before.  in my mind’s eye i imagine a willow tree on the bank of a river, the way its branches softly saw in the breeze — that kind of stillness, something still moving but at the same time resolutely grounded, unassuming and above all patient.  maybe it will all be thrown out the window sometime soon; i can’t help but feel a constant teetering on the edge of chaos. but for now, i’m not thinking about it too much. for now, i’m here and i’m okay.

winds are turning, summer is rearing its head; my friends, my loves, the light in the hallway or blooming ivy on the windowsill, the way that incense curls up to heaven — there is so much reminding me of what’s magical and magnificent. i’m thinking of and holding this all, i’m drawing my courage from it; are you finding solace in any similar, glowing gems? i have a dream this summer of going to the beach every weekend i’m in new york, beginning in june. will you go to the beach with me?

love,

e

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
eastern pkwy, brooklyn, ny <br>
</p>