hi, dear friend,

let me try to start here: 

it was tuesday, late in the afternoon, and the wind carried with it the edge of a new season. my grief had been itching at me, despite efforts to ignore it. i left home for a change of scenery.

and on my way back, as i climb up towards grand army plaza, just before the station entrance is a sandwiched specter of brownstone. it hovered over a patch of overgrowing greenery, wild yet still contained, or contained as long as the buildings around it survive. absence, visualized on that scale, ripples through me. i realized with an oh, that this is the shape of loss.

so i tried again to write a letter to you in my head.  i know it’s been long, and i know i have nothing to prove to you — but ahh, wouldn’t it be nice to feel like my thoughts are coherent enough to weave a kind of narrative? it had started off near the end of april, when we still seemed to be collectively clawing through an interminable winter.  but one blink and we’ve tumbled into may, which i’ve mostly spent listening to bill evans and chewing on a title of a song.

my notes are a mess, too. many written stories of yesterday:<br>
<em>yesterday there were moments i looked at you and just felt like you were the most beautiful thing in the world — that being beside you was all i ever really wanted.</em><br>
<em>yesterday l. messaged me in surprise following a lucid dream she had, a dream in which i was told everything i’d want to hear. she said it took her 10 minutes to realize it was a dream and not a memory. maybe it’s meaningful, maybe it’s just meaningless, too.  i remind myself, seeking out signs can be its own trap door.</em><br>
<em>yesterday i wrote another letter and burned it outside on the fire escape, for no reason but to speak to god, bear some kind of witness, and imagine the energy transformed into something new.</em>

and i’m still writing them, of course. i do so most often during the hours of daylight still golden though fading, when i go on a slow and heavy walk through prospect park. my body knows such deliberation is a part of the process.  i am dancing in stilted though impassioned steps; i am re-discovering what i can claim as my own.

i’m sick of asking you this, but ask again i must (& thank you for bearing with me). how do you face that never-ending aftermath? long after intimacy ends, or transforms into another entity, and you remain with the bleeding of someone else’s world into your own. how do you do it? i’ve bought myself bouquets of flowers, or looked into a mirror and think about how no one will ever see this face in the manner that i see it.

i’ve made a list of how i can tell that time was passing. last time i did so the curtains were drawn, the pain in my back like a stabbed knife. <em>when it’s a new morning, my eyes are freshly crusted over</em>. <em>when morning arrives, a sliver of light makes its way onto the wall opposite of my bed</em>. so i could tell you what hour it was by how the light travelled: then, it was around 9 am.  <em>in the morning, you hear new sirens</em>. <em>in the morning, my super mops the hallway floors and the smell of soap drifts into our living room</em>.  because even if i can’t articulate or fully believe in better things to come, it’s a demonstration of faith to simply pass time, to keep walking forward and bring yourself to tomorrow. 

there emerge the most beautiful, sparkling kernels incrusted in solitude, alongside the most lonesome and beastly holes.  the holes, no matter how you dress it or no matter what you do, simply are what they are. while the kernels reveal themselves, tender, all around:  small pattering of birds, faint footsteps of passersby, conversations that float in and out of audibility.  the sun shines on your forehead and a cool breeze chills your fingers. for a moment everything is delicate and still, affirming how to soften is okay. i play the music of ahmad jamal and feel it solely for my spirit.

that’s what i’ve been hoping to tell you, mainly. how i’ve been listening to pianists i love, in order to remember that the beauty i cherish in this life will always be mine to enjoy.  like calls or messages that serve as reminders, i could not have done anything different, i have not done or been anything wrong. 

and to hear in i.’s voice, “you’re more than perfect,” feel in the glimpse of a glowing moment that perfection is simply being me — to lip-sync scream on the sidewalk: <em>IT’S EVERYTHING; I’M EVERYTHING!</em> —

again, i was knocked over; again, i am brought back, sitting in the sun. my eyes are gently open. a person walks by with a bright daffodil in hand.

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
eastern pkwy, brooklyn, ny <br>
</p>