twilight, tall grass, and i sit mostly in silence across from a newly made friend. he is thirty years old, soft with generosity and the aftertaste of smoke; especially familiar because he's eritrean, and pronounces his 't's with the gentle 'de' of a german. aguzo can talk, talk about anything, and his stories often unravel in an endless stream of a sentence. which has felt good to me, since lately i don't really want to talk as much as i want to observe, fade into a background of blue. before we met i would go up that hill and turn myself over towards the sky, speaking nothing but breath, hearing nothing but wind sifted through trees. there's a shimmering in that kind of silence that feels so rich to me, how close i am to a sort of tantric emptiness. when night arrived aguzo told me, 'next time we need to make sure it's just me asking questions and you talking.' funny, realizing that i've started needing questions to speak -- i find i am so quiet lately, despite so many bubbling emotions. though i suppose my thoughts are especially jumbled right now. regardless, there are always wounds deep enough to show i carry all of the heart to feel, if not the words to express.

anyway -- hiiiiiiii ♥︎ i'm sorry i disappeared and took my strange musings with me, though hopefully you didn't notice or care too much...usually it takes a year for my resolutions to actually kick in anyway; i thought i could keep the relentlessness of time from wearing me down, distancing me from the writing and reflection i hoped for, but it appears i will always be at its mercy, at least for the forseeable future. if i ever become famous i imagine an exhibition of my journals, with strangers flipping through pages of my life told between month-long gaps. (reviewers will say it was shitty, and that no one left knowing much more about me.)

can you believe it's almost august, almost almost-fall again? i can't help but see september as the start of a new year, august as a bittersweet promise.  how have you been doing? how have you been carrying your changes? so much has changed over here. i can almost put my hair in a ponytail, double tied as a bun. i have a total of nine beautiful plant children now. :) my parents and i talk a bit more regularly, a bit more honestly than before. there is so much i feel i am still learning -- especially about love, of all sorts, but especially towards my family and those i fall into romance with.  the two are related somehow, aren't they: as people who touch you in such fundamental, vulnerable places? when i last saw z. it was late june, and i was ready to end things.  i can't begin, and don't necessarily want, to describe how much of the past year had been swallowed by conflict and hurt. it starts with insecurity and desperation and morphs into more, boundaries that can never be un-crossed -- and i wish i had been able to voice my feelings before all the pain was lodged, because maybe we would still be together. but also maybe we wouldn't, and maybe that would still be for the best.

so i've been here, rediscovering solitude, which confronts you in the sharpest of ways. somehow feelings i thought i had processed years came flooding back -- as if my relationship with z. was the levee keeping them at bay. the mistakes of my past, relationships i feel i've broken, they all have a sudden clarity to them. it's left me so painfully raw and exposed. but it's awakening, in a way. when i was younger i would go out in the harshest of blizzards, wrapped in all my winter gear to collapse on top of a snow bank -- all for the icy wind to slap my face and make me feel absolutely alive. and this moment feels like the cold, sharp and severe and crackling with energy. a moment that jolts you back to yourself after travelling too far.

if grace had a flavor i imagine it's this: the smoke from a pan, the savor of butter, a freshness that's green and salt from the brow.  which is to say, i think grace has been planning my meals and walking outside, losing myself in a park when the sun decides to shine over london. sometimes i feel like i've been stumbling over every step, that there are turns i've completely failed to clear. but i suppose there's nothing else to do but embrace that, hope for and work towards something better. wherever things feel shaky, uncertain, i'm trying not to have fear and despair. can you tell me what's been keeping you safe, centered, unafraid? for me, it's been phone calls with loved ones, black coffee in the afternoon, [linda perhacs](http://mail01.tinyletterapp.com/into-the-garden/listen-it-s-just-that-i-think-too-much/14919022-www.youtube.com/watch?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) and [sunsets over hilly fields](http://mail01.tinyletterapp.com/into-the-garden/listen-it-s-just-that-i-think-too-much/14919026-www.flickr.com/photos/cathdupuy/31920239786?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19). whatever can turn moments into shelters and warmer memories. i guess i'm just trying to keep my fears from ruling over my life. because maybe it does exist, that elusive place where words come easily and hearts are unshakeable, where my power is limitless.

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
soggy streets, london, UK <br>
</p>