dear friend,

today was another one of those mondays, of feeling bad and like my heart burns in all the wrong ways. so i thought to write to you, and through this fashion one good thing. there have been other goodnesses, of course, like when i called kyle this morning to muster myself out of bed, and found comfort in the fact that we were both sluggish and stuck, or how perpetually sweet raziel (the cat that i’m taking care of this week) cuddles up beside me on the couch.  i’ve been thinking to myself how, when written down on paper, the apparent good of my life seems almost bewildering. but then i remember how much is masked behind names, or forgotten memories, in cracks of the psyche that never seem to fully heal. another heat wave ripples through brooklyn and everything slows, to the point where you forget what movement really feels like.  as if the present is unequivocally all there is; and not in the way of a flow that is beautifully grounded, living-in-the-moment, but of a trap, or a funnel to a future of continued brutality and sacrifices. 

i’m sorry this is…a bit of a downer. i wish we could lie quietly together, i wish there was something i could do or say to somehow make things feel better. i know, i know, changes have indeed happened for the better;  however minuscule they may seem in contrast with global scales of grief, i’m grateful for the soft places that have opened in me, the warmth being cast by new light and hope entering through. even in the midst of frustration, i can recognize that difference.

like if you had told me six months ago, that on a non-descript saturday night in july, m. and i would be sitting across from each other laughing and eating ice cream — that the ache in my heart would have thawed and evaporated enough for me to feel love without regret, or expectation, or fury, or faithlessness — how would i have believed you? and yet, here i am, with this one home transformed in ways i do not fully know, but can feel grounded and trusting in nonetheless. here i am, perpetually finding home in those who i love and who deeply love me in return.

i’ve been seeing a lot of signaling lately about the nature of changes, how change happens in often imperceptible, incremental ways. by signaling i mean: articles that somehow pop up in front of me, recurring threads of conversation…certainly i am not the only one who desperately feels various changes are needed, and needed imminently, all the while wrestling against a despair that tries to convince me how little is actually possible. 

i wish i had an answer for how to deal with that struggle. or an answer that felt easier than what the universe seems to be telling me, which is _just be patient_. i could ask myself what will be different six months from now. but maybe you feel it too, how _will be_ seems less and less real, and all there really is are the steps we take to try moving forward.

yesterday i went to a part of the rockaways that i had never been to before, to see the sunset beside the beach. and i’ve probably already told you about the singular goal i have for this summer, which is to take myself to the beach every weekend i’m in the city. oftentimes i can be weak when it comes to self-made promises, but i also like to think i’m strong enough to honor the ones that are most important. like stepping into another week, however hard it may be, and trying my best to greet it with reminders of beauty that is but one choice, one train ride, one ocean away.

<p class="caption">
<a target="_blank" src="https://gardensongs.github.io">garden songs</a> by eden <br>
eastern pkwy, brooklyn, ny <br>
</p>