yesterday was my last night in new york -- august 1st, which felt fitting. a comic i saw started his set invoking this beginning of the end. august has always felt bittersweet to me, heavy with memories of all the summer that has passed, and a strange mix of excitement and trepidation towards what looms ahead.  (& bittersweet in other ways; my birthday is at the end of the month, too early to have the proper recognition from all my school mates, but too late to have any genuine happiness that comes with summer, space, relaxation.)  i still feel the residual fatigue of the past four years, dragging my feet and leaving my eyes heavy-lidded.  but the onset of my birth month doesn’t feel as bitter as it has before.

there was a ritual that z. wanted us to do before i left the city, known as the blessing way. her mother runs a women’s health clinic, and holds this ritual for expecting mothers; the woman invites her loved ones to partake in a gathering where hopes and dreams for the future are vocalized and the path ahead is collectively blessed.  first: a relevant poem or reading is shared.  second: the feet of the women are washed (“because you cant begin a new path with old feet,” z. told me, though when she said this i naturally thought of needing to cut off my old feet and grow new ones). third: each person takes a moment, focusing their attention, thoughts, and words on the person who they have all gathered around for, who is embarking on a new phase of their life journey.  blessings are shared.  and lastly: a ball of yarn is sent around, to be looped and tied around the ankles of all present such that at the end everyone is physically connected by this one thread.  eventually the yarn is cut, though the ritual and power of the blessing way remains embodied in the anklets that everyone shares.  and you’re further comforted by the knowledge that, when the anklet inevitably slips off of your foot, this means that all the blessings you have brought into the world are soon to be realized.

z. and i are only two people, and neither of us are pregnant so the ritual took a bit of a different form.  we created a little altar of flowers to surround the white couch we sat on, and placed a big water basin and towel before us. step one was the same. step two consisted of us both gingerly dipping our feet into the basin, soaking our feet as we opened our hearts to each other in step three. i was in charge of purchasing red yarn, but in classic fashion ~~fucked it up~~ the area around me simply had *no* places where they sold yarn -- so for step four, we wrapped a spool of red string around our left ankles, eight times on each one.  it feels light on my leg, faint but noticeable.  and with it, this sparkle in my chest -- which is new, like a bud beginning to bloom.  she told me yesterday that earlier, an [e.e. cummings poem](www.poetryfoundation.org/poetrymagazine/poems/49493/i-carry-your-heart-with-mei-carry-it-in?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) came to mind: *i carry your heart with me.* “but if i carry your heart with me, does that mean you are without your heart? because then you would not be whole -- and i want you to be whole, i want you to have all of you and be all of you.” so we decided that what cummings must have meant, is that my heart is your heart and your heart is my heart (*i carry it in my heart*) -- so when i carry my heart i carry the hearts of all i love, who love me, who have shared of their hearts. i feel like every day, i am learning more about the remarkable nature of closeness and inhabiting physical/emotional/spiritual space with other people. doing less feeling or observing, and more receiving -- letting things enter inside of me, as opposed to simply grazing my skin.

i left her apartment at dusk, to meet olu and tania on the lower east side; entered a dinky little club filled with patrons and aspiring performers and red lighting. we laughed a lot, said goodbyes that, thank God, weren’t complete goodbyes. i stayed behind for an open mic and made friends with one guy named Tom and another named Bob. and got back to my brother’s apartment, very much drunker than planned, but happy. happy to be who i am, where i am, with those that dream and want for me, (that care enough about my thoughts to subscribe to a fucking newsletter!!) -- with whom i can future talk, and who will get ready to greet the winter with me.