friends --

it’s been a while, and i miss you all. <3 until now i’ve been in cool mountain air, so it’s strange to return to wisconsin with all its flatness and humidity. these last moments of a chapter, i a person who’s changed in a place that has not.

today is my mother’s 52nd birthday, the last day of august. to celebrate, my father got two tickets for a badgers football game from a colleague; he intended to go with her, but after remembering that i would be home reasoned it would be better for my mom and i to go together. i don’t know why he thought it was a good idea to get the tickets in the first place -- neither of us like to watch sports. but the heart in the gesture was there, though sadly my mother did not see it. *you just forgot it was my birthday*, she shouted over dinner, not knowing all the plans he had confided in me.  after that, the conversation was over and my father took my dog on a walk.

the nights are getting colder here. i told her, *you shouldn’t have said that to him.* she continued to wipe the counter, not looking at me. *i know. he will get over it.why don’t you talk to him? this may be small, but it is the small moments of hurt that accumulate.* my mother started laughing a bit, perhaps thinking that if she imagined this was a joke it would turn into one. *you have no idea, how much hurt i have had to deal with over the years.*

when i moved out of the co-op in may, i remember being appalled by how much had been accrued.  you don’t realize the excess you live with until it is all splayed out before you: the discarded papers and clothes you wear once every 5 months, he notes you wrote and forgot, diaries hidden in a dresser. my room in wisconsin already overflows with vestiges of my middle and high school years; to which i return, bursting with new additions, none of which i need but can’t bear to get rid of. maybe the reason why shows like “hoarders” are so frighteningly captivating is because we see ourselves in that attic, filling it to the brim with old editions of  TIME magazine and snack wrappers; we are all burying ourselves alive in some way, struggling to let go of our hold on things.

in the spring my mother did one of the deepest cleanings i’ve ever witnessed. when i came back after graduation, the bookshelves were perfectly reorganized and the old toys thrown away, even the unfinished room of our basement had turned from its dusty, cobwebbed self into something neat and spacious.  but the house still holds something, a tension, mess piling up in the corners. i’ve lived enough now to realize what’s been acknowledged and what’s been glossed over, what can change and what cannot.  aftermaths are often quieter than expected: someone downstairs watching TV, someone upstairs reading a book. i asked my dad how he was doing. he looked up, eyes shiny and red from behind his glasses. old, so much older than i realized before.  *i’m just tired*, he told me.

i lost my external hard drive since returning here. it’s a shitty piece of hardware that i bought at best buy in high school, $70 for 1 terabyte, which sputters and whirs when connected to my computer but held everything. my backups, the clunky applications, all of the junk i didn’t want to put on my computer but still kept close, never forgetting.

in other circumstances, losing my drive wouldn’t be important. all that i felt i *really* needed was with me on my own computer. but my computer has nothing on it anymore.  in a feat of brilliant organization i decided to consolidate everything on my desktop into one place, only to accidentally -- and permanently (yes, i somehow emptied the trash) -- delete the folder containing my all. my music and compositions, documents, spreadsheets, gone.

i’m trying to convince myself the erasure, ensured by loss, was intentional. that the blank slate is a blessing, not a curse.  sometimes my mother does things that pierces parts of me i thought i had let go of, makes me imagine how life could be if certain memories could be forgotten. i told her tonight, *there are some things you don’t just say from nothing* -- i wish i could ask her, *mother, where is it coming from, this hurt that makes you assume the worst in others?* to try and, maybe, loosen her grip. clean out the cluttered, heavy heart she carries.

i hope all is going well, wherever you all are; that you feel clearer than before, and capable of letting go.

love,<br>
-e