hey y'all ♥︎

ya gxrl is a bit freer today :) tuesday was my dissertation due date, a deadline i have been holding onto for so long and can finally, _finally_, let go of. it's strange to think that i've never been out of school until now – in this way, the reality of my agency and adult life has felt obscured from me. but here i am, somehow, this weird little leaf sprouting from the bud! holding pain and promise, moving forward from the many days these past few weeks months where my lack of motivation felt completely inescapable. slowly but steadfastly coming to believe that this, here, is a sort of new beginning.

i was reminded that a full moon is approaching! which brought me back to the moonlists – as always, you are more than welcome to look at [the questions](https://themoonlists.substack.com/about), reflect on them and share with me whatever memories you gather. august was...a rollercoaster. specifically, the kind that throws you suddenly and into directions you didn't even know existed. but enduring that, moving through that, and finding joy where i could – this was important for me, and i suppose it wouldn't be possible without some source of chaos. ([no mud, no lotus](http://www.parallax.org/product/no-mud-no-lotus-the-art-of-transforming-suffering/?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19), as thich nhat hanh would say.)

hoping that in what's coming next, for all of us, whatever dust is swirling can begin to settle; that we can begin to feel a little more secure, a little more focused in direction and intention, and a lot of deep, abiding love.

_1\. detail_<br>it was that perfect summer day: where the sun shines softly, and the wind washes over your skin with absolute kindness, and all the leaves in the garden sing along, glistening – luke had been in london for a while, and we were both resting at home. lunch, in the sunlight, was nourishing in so many ways. we ate, we dreamed, we spoke the promises of our future into being. since then, i can i've tried to ground myself as much as i can in the store of energy our beautiful and affirming conversation built.

_2\. adjust_<br>what i hate to admit, is that there's is still a part of me stuck in 2018. there's still a self, pained with its love and brokenness. i’ve been working on forgetting, and sometimes i do. though i'm realizing maybe it’s not so much about forgetting as it is about forgiving: to take those knots still coiled in my heart, run them under warm water and untangle, absolve whatever guilt and despair remain within and towards me.

_3\. indulgent_ <br>on the night that most wedding guests arrived in istanbul, phillip and ege organized a soak, scrub, and massage at the city’s oldest bathhouse.  what a shockingly cavernous structure, this dome ringed with windows the shape of stars. air hung heavy, laden with steam and sweat and perfume.  i remember laying down, staring up into the ceiling – humming to myself, just to hear how the notes bounced off all the walls in incredible reverberation. how the bathing maid drenched me in water and draped my naked body with suds, that reminder of baptism, when she scrubbed my skin so hard i felt my sins nearly wiped clean.  there was nothing on my mind in that moment but the smell of soaped jasmine, the echo of the hall, the soft warm of my body.

_4\. minor secrets_ <br>at multiple points i’ve considered stealing alfredo’s gold casio watch – he’s left it in a dresser in the living room, untouched for months, and i don’t even know whether he remembers its existence at all. stealing it would be so, so easy, and the watch would look phenomenal on me – but unfortunately i have too powerful of a consciousness to carry out the act. (\*rolls eyes at self\*)

_5\. nature_ <br>one evening i went to hilly fields, after a brutal day in the library, and i stared at the sky so long i thought i was starting to see the wind. it looked like these nearly transparent swirls, eddies of air that were just barely distinguishable from the background of sky. though i don’t know if the unfolding sight was even real, or a strange waking hallucination.

_6\. surprise_ <br>the surprise is that one point during the wedding ceremony, mario and another man, whose name i’ve already forgotten, began to shower me with compliments of how beautiful i looked. the supposedly perfect symmetry of my smile, my face, the birthmarks on my back. what’s not surprising is how i felt so powerfully stunned, nervous even, as if they were breathing down my neck or staring me down ruthlessly. and i won’t lie and say that i don’t know why. i still don’t know how to take compliments. it’s always been this way, looking in the mirror and finding nothing beautiful there.

_7\. time alone_ <br>in the height of my dissertation work, i spent many nights walking alone from the library.  of course, there was a subtle terror in the process, which is why i began each journey home with a prayer and never said a word about how late i would stay up to my mother.  but there were also these moments of such stillness and freedom, when at 4am nothing stood on lewisham way except for me and [milo](http://youtu.be/koeioig4nvw?c=34ebca37-bdf5-43c1-977c-a4799b77fb19) between my ears.

_8\. encounter_ <br>jasmine, who hosted mario and i in istanbul, had only recently broken up with her partner arash after living together for the past two years. so i wasn’t able to properly meet and converse with arash until the very last moments of my trip, when both mario and jasmine had left for their travels. i stood in their formerly shared apartment, cleaning, saying my slow goodbyes to the city, when he arrived – mainly to gather some items, cook a quiet meal for himself. arash graciously shared his lunch with me (already finding an immediate entry point into my heart). and somehow this grew into such genuine, calm, and gentle togetherness, as we made coffee, shared memories of our lives, discussed the world and our hopes and frustrations. i still feel so grateful that my final moments in istanbul, a trip that was difficult and healing in many ways, could be spent in such unexpected care: the unflinching immediacy of his hospitality, this song, sending me home.

_9._ _absence_ <br>when josé passed i felt my heart cave into itself, my body emptied of everything. it’s been a slow process of re-filling out that shell; of wrestling with grief, being wracked with _if only’_s. and it’s all the sadder to realize how you don’t truly recognize what’s absent from your life until the universe bars it from re-appearing – until you are shocked by something so inconceivably cruel, as his death was. 

_10\. gratitude_ <br>life. the sheer absurdity of it. how i’ve been handed such impossible, glowing opportunity. i’m trying to honor the fruits of potential and power that i've received from living. take nothing for granted. and really recognize how lovingly God has positioned me, honestly, to realize my wildest dreams.